LZL Engineering is a Minnesota LLC company founded in 2006 by Laurence Lee.  LZL exclusively focuses on new processing technologies and partnerships with clients to develop and commercialize new products in particle engineering related applications.  

Dr. Laurence Lee was also one of the founders of Vision Processing Technologies, Inc., which was acquired on Dec 17th, 2014 by Kerry, Inc.  Kerry is a global food ingredient company.  Through the acquisition, LZL extended its unique fluid bed technology to Kerry. Ten LZL designed/built fluid bed systems are still operating at Kerry facilities in the USA.  Kerry continues to serve previous Vision clients as well as new clients.   Kerry’s business model appears to be focused only on larger scale orders and clients.  

LZL moved to its new location in 2012.   Our 2300 Park Drive - Suite 300, Owatonna MN 55060 building, is 63,000 square feet, sitting on seven acres in an industrial park in the City of Owatonna.  33,000 sq. ft. is dedicated to office space, R&D facility, shop area and warehouse.  

In 2018, LZL allocated 6,000 sq. ft. for a commercial manufacturing zone expansion.  The new expansion is expected to be completed mid May 2019.  This new investment allows LZL better positioning in individualized client support through development of the client’s new products, commercialization and staff training.  LZL will have commercial scale capacity for demonstration and production prior to our clients installing LZL equipment in their own facilities, locally and globally.  LZL operates under a quality system utilizing Kosher OU, Halal and GMP practices.  LZL’s equipment is designed to serve the food, industrial and feed industries. LZL  is versatile; handling large or small quantities, from hundreds of lbs. to millions of lbs. annually.

Currently, LZL has an extensive R&D lab and pilot plant, hosting multiple unit operations and additional fluid bed systems.  In addition, LZL houses a new show room for a G2 pilot fluid bed system.  Our larger processing areas are equipped with G2 fluid bed systems which can handle batch sizes of 70, 240 and 700 lbs. These are equipped with other processes, such as high shear granulation and fluid bed drying for high moisture content (up to 40 %) products, and integrated raw material loading and finished product unloading features.  Please contact us for more details.   We appreciate the opportunity to help you explore your needs for new products and will support you in taking your concepts from ideas to reality.  With our combined 100 years plus experience in particle related applications, we have the experience to successfully make our clients’ products successful in the market.  We look forward to partnering with you.
